---
title: Statistic H_3
date: 2023-10-21 22:00:11 +/-0000
categories: [learning]
---

# Statistic (practical assignment)

## Part a <br>
M systems are subject to a series of N attacks. On the x-axis, we indicate the attacks and on the Y-axis we
simulate the accumulation of a "security score" (-1, 1), where the score is -1 if the system is penetrated
and 1 if the system was successfully "shielded" or protected. Simulate the score "trajectories" for all systems,
assuming, for simplicity, a constant penetration probability p at each attack.

## Part b <br>
Same as before, but simulate the cumulated frequency, say f, of penetration. Do the same with the relative
frequency f/number of attacks and the "normalized" ratio: f/ √number of attacks.


For any of the above 4 charts (which will be actually an instance of a unique "object", from a coder's point of view), plot
a vertical histogram at some point x (day or attack number, user parameter) and at the last abscissa
value.

# Implementation a-b
First of all we need a function to generate an array of values that simulates the un/successfull breaches each day for N days in each sistem.
The probability for the attack to be successfull is chosen by the user through the gui and each value is generated through this function.

```c#
for (int i = 0; i < linee; i++)
{
    List<int> a = new List<int>();

    for (int j = 0; j < sample; j++)
    {

        float randomFloat = (float)rand.NextDouble();
        //Console.WriteLine($"valore usci vs prob == {randomFloat} {prob}");
        if (randomFloat < prob)                               // fai scegliere prob
        {
            a.Add(+1);

        }
        else
        {
            a.Add(-1);
        }
    }
    listOfLists.Add(a);
}
```

{% include embed/{youtube}.html id='{c8E2mk2PfCU}' %}



## Bonus <br>

### Optional Part c

Given M computer systems. For each system, consider N days, where an attack can happen with probability p.
[You can allow p to change over systems or over days, if you wish, and note if there are differences in the (asymptotic) distribution.]
Chart the cumulative number of attacks at each day (all systems) or for each system (all days) with an animation
that shows, at any time, either the total number of attacks for each system or the attacks in each day for all systems.

### Optional Part d

Do the same as in the previous part but, instead of counting the days with attacks, count the actual attacks each day which
we assume to be (0, 1, ..., k) with respective (constant wrt time) probabilities (p0, ..., pk).


# Exercise 2

Recall briefly the definition and math notions relevant to "probability space" and make some simple examples, indicating among the triple of the space the meaning of each element in your particular example.
If you wanted to model probabilistically the homework Exercise 1, explain what are the 3 sets of your probability space and their elements, in this case.

A probability space is a triple (Ω ,F,P) , where Omega is a sample space, F is a sigma-algebra of events and p is a probability measure on F.

### Elements of a probability space
The three building blocks of a probability space can be described as follows:
1. the sample space Omega is the set of all possible outcomes of a probabilistic experiment;
1. the sigma-algebra F is the collection of all subsets of Omega to which we are able/willing to assign probabilities; these subsets are called events;
1. the probability measure P is a function that associates a probability to each of the events belonging to the sigma-algebra F.

### Examples (metti immagini)

1. Coin Toss:
Sample Space: Ω = {Heads (H), Tails (T)}
Event Space: F = {∅, {H}, {T}, {H, T}}
Probability Measure: P(H) = 0.5, P(T) = 0.5

1. Deck of Cards:
Sample Space: Ω = 52 distinct playing cards
Event Space: F could include various events like "drawing a red card," "drawing a spade," or "drawing a face card."
Probability Measure: P(drawing a red card) = 26/52 = 0.5

1. Rolling Two Dice:
Sample Space: Ω = {(1,1), (1,2), ..., (6,6)} (36 possible outcomes)
Event Space: F could include events like "sum of the two dice is 7" or "at least one die is a 5."
Probability Measure: P(sum of the two dice is 7) = 6/36 = 1/6
fonti... https://www.statlect.com/glossary/probability-space

## Building blocks of probability of space

Sample space
The first one, the sample space Omega, is a primitive concept, loosely defined as the set of all possible outcomes of the probabilistic experiment.
The other two building blocks are instead defined rigorously, by enumerating the properties (or axioms) that they need to satisfy

Event Space (F)
The event space, denoted as F, is a collection of subsets of the sample space. Each subset represents a specific event or set of outcomes.
Example: In the case of a die roll, F could include events like "rolling an even number" (F = {2, 4, 6}) or "rolling a number less than 3" (F = {1, 2}).

Probability Measure (P):
The probability measure, denoted as P, assigns a probability value to each event in the event space. It quantifies the likelihood of an event occurring.
Example: For a fair six-sided die, P(rolling a 1) = 1/6, and P(rolling an even number) = 3/6 = 1/2.

A probability space must satisfy two essential properties:

The probability of the entire sample space Ω is equal to 1: P(Ω) = 1.
The probability of the union of disjoint events is the sum of their individual probabilities: P(A ∪ B) = P(A) + P(B) for disjoint events A and B.

In our first exercise
the set of all possible outcomes are contained in the maximum and minimum higth reached by the lowest and the hiest line representing a specific sistem, we reach the hiest numer if each day we have a breach.

the event space can be every subset of reached values

the probability is the one chosen by the user wich assugn probability p to the breach to happen and 1-p to the opposite









