---
title: Statistic H_6
date: 2023-11-14 8:18:11 +/-0000
categories: [learning]
math: true
image: /assets/img/previews/altra_p.png
---
# Exercise

# Research

In the previous section, we implemented the simplest kind of symmetric random walk,
One can imagine the random walk as representing a sequence of tosses of a weighted coin, with a head appearing with probability  p
and a tail appearing with probability q or an alternative formulation of this situation is that of a **gambler** playing a sequence of games against an adversary where, in each game, the gambler has probability p (50% in tour case) of winning.

### The Gambler’s Ruin Problem
The above formulation of this type of random walk leads to a problem known as the **Gambler’s Ruin problem**.
A gambler starts with a “stake" of size s (0 in out case) . She/he plays until the capital reaches the value  M (security score)
or the value zero (in our sistem we record the penetration score reached).
We are interested in studying the probability of occurrence of each of these outcomes.
nel nostro caso la soglia 0 o è uno dei p o possiamo considerare il p rimo come denaro=0 e gli altri come negativo

## History (sistema)

In 1711, De **Moivre**, in his book , gave an ingenious derivation of the probability of ruin. The following description of his argument is taken from David.6 The notation used is as follows: We imagine that there are two players, A and B, and the probabilities that they win a game are  p and  q, respectively. The players start with  a and  b counters, respectively.

_Imagine that each player starts with his counters before him in a pile, and that nominal values are assigned to the counters in the following manner. A’s bottom counter is given the nominal value  q/p
 ; the next is given the nominal value  (q/p)2
 , and so on until his top counter which has the nominal value  (q/p)a
 . B’s top counter is valued  (q/p)a+1
 , and so on downwards until his bottom counter which is valued  (q/p)a+b
 . After each game the loser’s top counter is transferred to the top of the winner’s pile, and it is always the top counter which is staked for the next game. Then B’s stake is always  q/p
  times A’s, so that at every game each player’s nominal expectation is nil. This remains true throughout the play; therefore A’s chance of winning all B’s counters, multiplied by his nominal gain if he does so, must equal B’s chance multiplied by B’s nominal gain. Thus,_

THIS
$$
Pa((\frac{q}{p})^a+1+⋯+(\frac{q}{p})^a+b)=Pb((\frac{q}{p})+⋯+(\frac{q}{p})^a) .
$$

Ref
>https://stats.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Probability_Theory/Book%3A_Introductory_Probability_(Grinstead_and_Snell)/12%3A_Random_Walks/12.02%3A_Gambler's_Ruin <br>
>https://yueandyzhang.weebly.com/gamblers-ruin.html
>https://demonstrations.wolfram.com/TheGamblersRuin/




