---
title: Statistic H_3.5
date: 2023-10-26 18:18:11 +/-0000
categories: [learning]
---


# Practical part 

Revise and optimize you previous programs to compute the joint distribution of any number of 2,3, ...k, continuous quantitative variables
where, for each variable, the user can specify the number of subdivisions ("class intervals") of a range containing the observed values.

Revise also your previous homework taking into account that qualitative variables can be ordered and therefore the order needs to be preserved.

For quantitative variables, include the possibility to specify class intervals too.


## Optional
Create a some visual representation of the distribution. Use creatively your fantasy and skills (you may invent new representations, if you like).


# Theory 

Research

(Revise and improve your simulations in homework 3, where necessary.)
Search on the web about the Law of large numbers LLN and compare it with Part b of your homework 3 and express in your own words whether your simulation is somehow related with this theorem, and why.
Search on the web about the Central Limit Theorem CLT and compare it with Part a of your homework 3 and say in your own words whether your simulation is somehow related with this theorem, and why.
Based on the CLT, how could you modify ("normalize") the "security score" to obtain an asymptotic convergence to a proper distribution?



es:
- **Simple random sampling** callsenerator 

- **Systematic sampling** calls for at a speci
